---
title: "Reproducing Malcomb (2014)"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - GIS
  - Reproducibility
---
# Takeaways from Reproducing Malcomb (2014)

<!--   What have you learned from doing a reproduction study?

Review the data sources and metadata for the reproduction study.
Review the pre-analysis plan for the reproduction study.
Study and execute the reproduction study code using RStudio. Take notes for yourself comparing the code to your own workflow for the research paper, identifying similarities and differences between the two.

Your final product from the workshop should be an extended blog post using the results and experience of this reproduction study to evaluate Malcomb et al (2014) in the framework of Tate (2013)’s assessment of error and uncertainty in spatial vulnerability models.

The blog post should make use of:

    The Malcomb et al (2014) publication
    The Tate (2013) publication (see next lesson)
    The Malcomb et al (2014) https://github.com/HEGSRR/RPr-Malcomb-2014


Link to your full study from the blog post-->
Vulnerability, also called Household Resistance, is the main result calculated in Malcomb et al (2014). The vulnerability index visualizes the risk that hazards pose to different areas of Malawi, and is made up of a heirarchical design of 18 variables organized into three subindices, pictured below. 

Insert: "/assets/images/Malcomb_Model_Structure.png"

When replicating this study, I am most concerned by the handling and resolution of the drought risk and flood risk raster layers. The cell size of these rasters is neither included in the metadata nor noted anywhere else in the replication. This seems like a large oversight, especially because these two layers make up 40% of the final vulnerability index, as much as all of the surveyed factors contributing ot adaptive capacity, also at 40%. While I understand why the authors would have gone ahead with using these raster layers, I feel like the uncertainty they introduce, both in the low resolution and data source is glossed over. 

The drought raster is essentially just a population map, because although touted as a global drought risk, the units are __expected average anual population (2007 as the year of reference) exposed__. This might be fine in the context of building an index concerned with number of people at risk or affected, but the vulnerability index is for the entire country of Malawi, and should not overrepresent areas with higher population. 

The flood raster has its own problems, and is at a significantly lower resolution than all other data layers. When this layer gets baked into everything else and split into a higher resolution, a lot of uncertainty is introduced, made even worse by the fact that the layer is responsible for 20% of the total versability. 

I am lowering the weight of the layer because of the responsibility that researchers have to clearly identify uncertainty in  of research, and not shy away from uncertainty graphs or limited data. 

Tate says drought map cell size is 4.6 kilometers
Flood map cell size is 9.5 km. 




Notes from running the replication:
There are a lot of correction code, like line 342, where while we are gathering TAs, we must do bevery specific filtering or selections, obviously thought of as solutions to errors found in the process. For example, the replication does not say how it was made aware of __"an error on the east side of lake Malawi,"__ just what small filtering is needed to solve it. While I am sure the replicators could write hundreds of pages documenting their tireless trouubleshooting and replication process, that would be much too detailed for 99.9% of readers, I am often left wondering how they caught small little hangups, like water clipping into TAs or other errors. I assume in this case that after every step, they map their polygons, and are able to visually confirm that everything looks as it should.




Our updated paper can be found at this [Link]()

## Hint!!
# look at data/metadata!
# data_metadata.csv


Malcomb, D. W., E. A. Weaver, and A. R. Krakowka. 2014. Vulnerability modeling for sub-Saharan Africa: An operationalized approach in Malawi. Applied Geography 48:17–30. DOI:10.1016/j.apgeog.2014.01.004